feat(K8): Moved content, created new sections and added doc placeholder (#5742)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/advanced-configuration/configure-control-plane-monitoring.mdx

  </Callout>
</Collapser>
</CollapserGroup>

### Set up mTLS for ETCD in OpenShift [#mtls-how-to-openshift]

Follow these instructions to set up mutual TLS authentication for ETCD in [OpenShift](http://learn.openshift.com/?extIdCarryOver=true&sc_cid=701f2000001OH7iAAG) 4.x:

1. Export the ETCD client certificates from the cluster to an opaque secret. In a default managed OpenShift cluster, the secret is named `kube-etcd-client-certs` and it is stored in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace.

   ```shell
   kubectl get secret/kube-etcd-client-certs -n openshift-monitoring -o yaml > etcd-secret.yaml
   ```

2. Open the secret file and change the keys:
   * Rename the **certificate authority** to `cacert`.
   * Rename the **client certificate** to `cert`.
   * Rename the **client key** to `key`.

3. Optional: change the secret name and namespace to something meaningful.

4. Remove these unnecessary keys in the metadata section:
   * `creationTimestamp`
   * `resourceVersion`
   * `selfLink`
   * `uid`

5. Install the manifest with its new name and namespace:

   ```shell
   kubectl apply -n newrelic -f etcd-secret.yaml
   ```

> 6. Configure the integration to use the newly created secret as described in [the mtls section](#mtls).

Author: Could we just point the integration to this already existing secret, and get rid of this whole section?

Might be related to https://github.com/newrelic/nri-kubernetes/issues/342

---

> title: Configure control plane monitoring

Reviewer: Incredible work with this doc !!

Author: A bunch of the paragraphs were copied or inspired by your work on the internal confluence page!

Clusters that do not have any node matching these selectors will not get any pod scheduled, thus not wasting any resources and being functionally equivalent of disabling control plane monitoring altogether by setting `controlPlane.enabled` to `false` in the Helm Chart.

Each component of the control plane has a dedicated section, which allows to individually:

* Enable or disable monitoring of that component
* Define specific selectors and namespaces for discovering that component
* Define the endpoints and paths that will be used to fetch metrics for that component
* Define the authentication mechanisms that need to be used to get metrics for that component

> * Manually specify endpoints that skip autodiscovery completely[^staticEndpoints]

Reviewer: this looks odd in the preview

Author: 🤦🏻‍♀️ 
I just googled that mdx supported markdown footnotes, and it turns out I should have googled if mdx _properly_ supports markdown footnotes.

[^staticEndpoints]: Configuring static endpoints requires careful configuration, please make sure you completely understand all the caveats mentioned in the [static endpoints section](#staticEndpoints).

### Autodiscovery and default configuration [#autodiscovery-default]

By default, our [Helm Chart](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/install-kubernetes-integration-using-helm) ships a default configuration that should work out of the box for some control plane components for on-premise distributions that run the control plane inside of the cluster, such as `Kubeadm` or `minikube`.

> #### `hostNetwork` and `privileged` [#hostnetwork-privileged]

Reviewer: what do you think on collapsing this to be optionally looked if needed ?

Author: Nice point, I am not sure at which point we deem something "rare enough" to hide it in a collapser. I would say that most users do not use `privileged: false`, but those who do, should really check this section...

@x8a Do you have any guidelines on which cases se should use collapsers?

---
title: Configure control plane monitoring
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Kubernetes integration
  - Installation
metaDescription: How to configure control plane monitoring for your Kubernetes integration with New Relic.
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/installation/configure-control-plane-monitoring
---

> [New Relic](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-infrastructure) provides [control plane](http://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/#kubernetes-control-plane) support for your Kubernetes integration, allowing you to monitor and collect metrics from your cluster's control plane components. That data can then be found in New Relic and used to [create queries and charts](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data).

Reviewer 2: http://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/#kubernetes-control-plane

± broken link?

Author: ```suggestion
[New Relic](/docs/infrastructure/new-relic-infrastructure/getting-started/introduction-new-relic-infrastructure) provides [control plane](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/#control-plane-components) support for your Kubernetes integration, allowing you to monitor and collect metrics from your cluster's control plane components. That data can then be found in New Relic and used to [create queries and charts](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data).
```

* **ETCD**: leader information, resident memory size, number of OS threads, consensus proposals data, etc. For a list of supported metrics, see [ETCD data](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#etcd-data).
* **API server**: rate of `apiserver` requests, breakdown of `apiserver` requests by HTTP method and response code, etc. For the complete list of supported metrics, see [API server data](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#api-server-data).
* **Scheduler**: requested CPU/memory vs available on the node, tolerations to taints, any set affinity or anti-affinity, etc. For the complete list of supported metrics, see [Scheduler data](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#scheduler-data).
* **Controller manager**: resident memory size, number of OS threads created, goroutines currently existing, etc. For the complete list of supported metrics, see [Controller manager data](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#controller-manager-data).

## Compatibility and requirements [#compatibility]

> * Control plane monitoring requires [Kubernetes integration version 1.16.0 or higher](/docs/release-notes/infrastructure-release-notes/kubernetes-integration-release-notes/).

Reviewer 2: does it make sense to keep this info ([Kubernetes integration version 1.16.0 or higher]) here?  There is a compatibility and requirements section already

* When deploying the solution in [unprivileged mode](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/installation/kubernetes-installation-configuration#unprivileged), control plane setup will require extra steps and some caveats might apply.
* [OpenShift](http://learn.openshift.com/?extIdCarryOver=true&sc_cid=701f2000001OH7iAAG) 4.x uses control plane component metric endpoints that are different than the default.

## Control plane component [#component]

The task of monitoring the Kubernetes control plane is a responsibility of the `nrk8s-controlplane` component, which by default is deployed as a DaemonSet. This component is automatically deployed to master nodes, through the use of a default list of `nodeSelectorTerms` which includes labels commonly used to identify master nodes, such as `node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane` or `node-role.kubernetes.io/master`. Regardless, this selector is are exposed in the `values.yml` file and therefore can be reconfigured to fit other environments.

> 

Reviewer 3: Typo "is are exposed"

Author: Awesome catch!

* Define the authentication mechanisms that need to be used to get metrics for that component
* Manually specify endpoints that skip autodiscovery completely[^staticEndpoints]

[^staticEndpoints]: Configuring static endpoints requires careful configuration, please make sure you completely understand all the caveats mentioned in the [static endpoints section](#staticEndpoints).

### Autodiscovery and default configuration [#autodiscovery-default]

By default, our [Helm Chart](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/install-kubernetes-integration-using-helm) ships a default configuration that should work out of the box for some control plane components for on-premise distributions that run the control plane inside of the cluster, such as `Kubeadm` or `minikube`.

#### `hostNetwork` and `privileged` [#hostnetwork-privileged]

Most users and Kubernetes distributions configure the control plane metrics endpoints to listen only in the loopback interface, i.e. `localhost`. For this reason, the control plane component is deployed with `hostNetwork: true` by default when `privileged` is set to `true` (the default).

> To honor the master `privileged` setting, `hostNetwork` will be set to `false` if `privileged` is set to `false`. This will cause control plane scraping to fail in most environments, which will result in missing metrics or the `nrk8s-controlplane` pods getting stuck into a `CrashLoopBackoff` state. This is a limitation of Kubernetes itself, as control plane cannot be monitored without `hostNetwork` unless components are manually configured to do so.

Reviewer 2: I find this sentence a bit confusing 
"To honor the master `privileged` setting, `hostNetwork` will be set to `false` if `privileged` is set to `false`."

Reviewer 2: Should we add a working in the chart to warning explicitly CrashLoopBackoff? Or is that a note next to privileged options in values?

Author: I reworded it a bit, let me know what you think.

Regarding the `CrashLoopBackoff`, it would depend on the user's env. It might fail if using `localhost` but only one node has the component on it, or it might just duplicate metrics silently if the url is non-local.

Reviewer 2: resolved

An autodiscovery section looks like the following:

```yaml
autodiscover:
  - selector: "tier=control-plane,component=etcd"
    namespace: kube-system
    # Set to true to consider only pods sharing the node with the scraper pod.
    # This should be set to `true` if Kind is Daemonset, `false` otherwise.
    matchNode: true
    # Try to reach etcd using the following endpoints.
    endpoints:
      - url: https://localhost:4001
        insecureSkipVerify: true
        auth:
          type: bearer
      - url: http://localhost:2381
  - selector: "k8s-app=etcd-manager-main"
    namespace: kube-system
    matchNode: true
    endpoints:
      - url: https://localhost:4001
        insecureSkipVerify: true
        auth:
          type: bearer
```

The `autodiscover` section contains a list of autodiscovery entries. Each entry has:
* `selector`: A string-encoded label selector that will be used to look for pods.
* `matchNode`: If set to true, it will additionally limit discovery to pods running in the same node as the particular instance of the DaemonSet performing discovery.

> * `endpoints`: A list of endpoints to try if a pod is found for the specified selector.

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to replicate the content here or can we point them to helm values?

Reviewer 2: or it is here in case they do not use helm?

Author: In this case I chose to put it here as it is close to the explanations, so users don't have to open a different link to see what I'm talking about.

Reviewer 2: resolved

 * None: If `auth` is not specified, the request will not contain any authentication whatsoever.
 * `bearer`: The same bearer token used to authenticate against the Kubernetes API will be sent to this request.
 * `mtls`: mTLS will be used to perform the request.

##### mTLS [#mtls]

For the `mtls` type, the following needs to be specified:

```yaml
endpoints:
  - url: https://localhost:4001
    auth:
      type: mtls
      mtls:
        secretName: secret-name
        secretNamespace: secret-namespace
```

Where `secret-name` is the name of a Kubernetes TLS Secret, which lives in `secret-namespace`, and contains the certificate, key, and CA required to connect to that particular endpoint.

The integration fetches this secret in runtime rather than mounting it, which means it requires an RBAC role granting it access to it. Our Helm Chart automatically detects `auth.mtls` entries at render time and will automatically create entries for these particular secrets and namespaces for you, unless `rbac.create` is set to false.

Our integration accepts a secret with the following keys:

> - `cert`: The PEM-encoded certificate that will be presented to etcd

Reviewer 2: this changed I believe

Author: The old behavior is still there, I'll add the new one when we merge (and test) the TLS type certs. For now I'd rather not block this PR until that happens 😓

Reviewer 2: Yeah, but I would assume that is merged at some point. I would be bold and assume new behaviour already, but your call

[//]: # (TODO: This should be a TLS secret when https://github.com/newrelic/nri-kubernetes/issues/342 is fixed.)

Once you have located or generated the etcd peer certificates, you should rename the files to match the keys we expect to be present in the secret, and create the secret in the cluster

```shell
mv peer.crt cert
mv peer.key key
mv ca.crt cacert

kubectl -n newrelic create secret generic newrelic-etcd-tls-secret --from-file=./cert --from-file=./key --from-file=./cacert
```

Finally, you can input the secret name (`newrelic-etcd-tls-secret`) and namespace (`newrelic`) in the config snippet shown at the beginning of this section. Remember that the Helm Chart will automatically parse this config and create an RBAC role to grant access to this specific secret and namespace for the `nrk8s-controlplane` component, so there's no manual action needed in that regard.

> ### Static endpoints [#static-endpoints]

Reviewer 2: we could also add a small callout telling them they can configure a static endpoint to scrape the KubernetesAPIServer in AWS/GCP with kind=Deployment

Reviewer 2: I'll provide it

Reviewer 2: # if you are wondering why false for nodeAffinity instead of null or {} check https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/9136

```yaml 
    controlPlane:
      affinity:
        nodeAffinity: false
      kind: Deployment
      config:
        etcd:
          enabled: false
        scheduler:
          enabled: false
        controllerManager:
          enabled: false
        apiServer:
         staticEndpoint:
           url: "https://kubernetes.default:443"
           insecureSkipVerify: true
           auth:
             type: bearer
```
Data reporting example
https://onenr.io/0e1wZMANaQ6

Author: Added!

While autodiscovery should cover cases where the control plane lives inside the Kubernetes clusters, some distributions or sophisticated Kubernetes environments run the control plane elsewhere, for a variety of reasons including availability or resource isolation.

For these cases, the integration can be configured to scrape an arbitrary, fixed URL regardless of whether a pod with a control plane label is found in the node. This is done by specifying a `staticEndpoint` entry. For example, one for an external etcd instance would look like this:

```yaml
controlPlane:
  etcd:
    staticEndpoint:
      url: https://url:port
      insecureSkipVerify: true
      auth: {}
```

`staticEndpoint` is the same type of entry as `endpoints` in the `autodiscover` entry, whose fields are described above. The authentication mechanisms and schemas are supported here.

Please keep in mind that if `staticEndpoint` is set, the `autodiscover` section will be ignored in its entirety.

#### Limitations [#static-endpoints-limitations]

<Callout variant="important">

>   If you are using `staticEndpoint`, you must change `controlPlane.kind` from `DaemonSet` to `Deployment`.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure this can be considered as a limitation.
Moreover In Rancher, even if they are static endpoints a daemonSet could be leveraged since they are still running on the cluster nodes.

They could either have multiple static endpoint with a Deployment or a Daemonset

Author: 🤔 You have a point there, there is a use case for that. I'll change the wording to mention the problem is when you scrape a non-local URL.

Author: Reworded it a bit, LMK WDYT

Reviewer 2: resolved

</Callout>

> When using `staticEndpoint`, all `nrk8s-controlplane` pods will attempt to reach and scrape said endpoint. This means that, if `nrk8s-controlplane` is a DaemonSet (the default), your components will get scraped multiple times, potentially leading to duplicate metrics and increased billable usage. If you are using `staticEndpoint`, make sure to change `controlPlane.kind` to Deployment.

Reviewer 2: unless the static endpoint have localHost. The question could be why having localhost? Since in rancher they are running outside the cluster and auto discovery does not work

Author: Reworded above.

For the same reason above, it is currently not possible to use autodiscovery for some control plane components, and a static endpoint for others. This is a know limitation we are working to address in future versions of the integration.

Lastly, `staticEndpoint` allows only to define a single endpoint per component. This means that if you have multiple control plane shards in different hosts, it is currently not possible to point to them separately. This is also a known limitation we are working to address in future versions. For the time being, a workaround could be to aggregate metrics for different shards elsewhere, and point the `staticEndpoint` URL to the aggregated output.

> ## Monitoring control plane with integration version 2 [#monitoring-control-plane]

Reviewer 2: Should we keep at least during the beta phase this section in the upper part?

Author: I'm not sure it will impact most users, I'm worried it could be too noisy if we pin it at the top.

Reviewer 2: resolved

* **Scheduler**: requested CPU/memory vs available on the node, tolerations to taints, any set affinity or anti-affinity, etc. For the complete list of supported metrics, see [Scheduler data](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#scheduler-data).
* **Controller manager**: resident memory size, number of OS threads created, goroutines currently existing, etc. For the complete list of supported metrics, see [Controller manager data](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#controller-manager-data).

## Compatibility and requirements [#compatibility]

* Control plane monitoring support is limited for managed clusters. This is because most cloud providers do not expose the metrics endpoints for the control plane components, so New Relic cannot access them.
* When deploying the solution in [unprivileged mode](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/installation/kubernetes-installation-configuration#unprivileged), control plane setup will require [extra steps](#hostnetwork-privileged) and some caveats might apply.

> * [OpenShift](http://learn.openshift.com/?extIdCarryOver=true&sc_cid=701f2000001OH7iAAG) 4.x uses control plane component metric endpoints that are different than the default.

Reviewer 4: I'm curious: why the long URL and not just http://learn.openshift.com?

Author: To be hones I'm not sure, I did not touch this fragment. But I neither see why those args could be useful, so I'll get rid of them :)

Clusters that do not have any node matching these selectors will not get any pod scheduled, thus not wasting any resources and being functionally equivalent of disabling control plane monitoring altogether by setting `controlPlane.enabled` to `false` in the Helm Chart.

Each component of the control plane has a dedicated section, which allows to individually:

* Enable or disable monitoring of that component
* Define specific selectors and namespaces for discovering that component
* Define the endpoints and paths that will be used to fetch metrics for that component
* Define the authentication mechanisms that need to be used to get metrics for that component
* Manually specify endpoints that skip autodiscovery completely

### Autodiscovery and default configuration [#autodiscovery-default]

> By default, our [Helm Chart](/docs/kubernetes-pixie/kubernetes-integration/installation/install-kubernetes-integration-using-helm) ships a default configuration that should work out of the box for some control plane components for on-premise distributions that run the control plane inside of the cluster, such as `Kubeadm` or `minikube`.

Reviewer 4: nit: repeated "default". I would drop the second one.

#### `hostNetwork` and `privileged` [#hostnetwork-privileged]

> Most users and Kubernetes distributions configure the control plane metrics endpoints to listen only in the loopback interface, i.e. `localhost`. For this reason, the control plane component is deployed with `hostNetwork: true` by default when `privileged` is set to `true` (the default).

Reviewer 4: "listen only _to_ the loopback interface"?

Author: From what I know, when talking about IP addresses (or interfaces, which is mostly the same) it is common to use listen _on_ rather than _to_. But I haven't found any "official guidance" on which is more correct.

When the integration is deployed using `privileged: false`, the `hostNetwork` setting for the control plane component will be also be set to `false`. We chose to do it this way because otherwise, we would not be honoring the intent users have when they set `privileged: false`. Unfortunately, deploying without `hostNetwork` will cause control plane scraping to fail in most environments, which will result in missing metrics or the `nrk8s-controlplane` pods getting stuck into a `CrashLoopBackoff` state. This is a limitation of Kubernetes itself, as control plane cannot be monitored without `hostNetwork` unless components are manually configured to do so.

> As it is a common setting to deploy the integration in unprivileged mode (`privileged: false`), but still consider acceptable running the control plane pods with `hostNetwork`. This can be achieving by setting `controlPlane.unprivilegedHostNetwork` to `true`: This will tell the chart to deploy the control plane component with `hostNetwork: true`, despite the value of the higher-level `privileged` flag.

Reviewer 4: achieving -> achieved

Please keep in mind that if `staticEndpoint` is set, the `autodiscover` section will be ignored in its entirety.

#### Limitations [#static-endpoints-limitations]

<Callout variant="important">
  If you are using `staticEndpoint` pointing to an out-of-node (i.e. not `localhost`) endpoint, you must change `controlPlane.kind` from `DaemonSet` to `Deployment`.
</Callout>

When using `staticEndpoint`, all `nrk8s-controlplane` pods will attempt to reach and scrape said endpoint. This means that, if `nrk8s-controlplane` is a DaemonSet (the default), all instances of the DaemonSet will scrape this endpoint. While this is fine if you are pointing them to `localhost`, if the endpoint is not local to the node you could potentially produce to duplicate metrics and increased billable usage. If you are using `staticEndpoint` and pointing it to a non-local URL, make sure to change `controlPlane.kind` to Deployment.

For the same reason above, it is currently not possible to use autodiscovery for some control plane components, and a static endpoint for others. This is a know limitation we are working to address in future versions of the integration.

> 

Reviewer 3: typo "known"

Author: https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/pull/5742/commits/c884563db3ca965db7f5f0b3d559295b3d8972e2

          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            ETCD
          </td>

          <td>
            **Kubeadm / Kops / ClusterAPI**

            `k8s-app=etcd-manager-main`

            `tier=control-plane component=etcd`

            **OpenShift**

            `k8s-app=etcd`
          </td>

          <td>
            `localhost:4001/metrics`
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            Scheduler
          </td>

          <td>
            **Kubeadm / Kops / ClusterAPI**

            `k8s-app=kube-scheduler`

            `tier=control-plane component=kube-scheduler`

            **OpenShift**

            `app=openshift-kube-scheduler scheduler=true`
          </td>

          <td>
            `localhost:10251/metrics`
          </td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
          <td>
            Controller manager
          </td>

          <td>
            **Kubeadm / Kops / ClusterAPI**

            `k8s-app=kube-controller-manager`

            `tier=control-plane component=kube-controller-manager​`

            **OpenShift**

>             `app=kube-controller-manager kube-controller-manager=true`

Author: Definitely no idea, but I've left it untouched as it was part of the v2-specific docs.

We monitor and collect [metrics](http://docs.newrelic.com/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#metrics) from the following control plane components:

> * **etcd**: leader information, resident memory size, number of OS threads, consensus proposals data, etc. For a list of supported metrics, see [ETCD data](/docs/integrations/kubernetes-integration/understand-use-data/understand-use-data#etcd-data).

Reviewer 5: There are mote `ETCD`. `sed` it! (after `grep`ing to be sure)

Author: https://github.com/newrelic/docs-website/pull/5742/commits/1f0e2293e24b452f8a8b316161134de8f0526623 :done:
